# pandas-challenge
 PyCity Schools Analysis
Summary of the Analysis:
Below given is a summary of the whole analysis for this project:

Introduction:
In this challenge, we are in the role of a new Chief Data Scientist for our city's school district.We are expected to assist the school and mayor make informed strategic decisions and future projections with regard to school bugdets and priorities. I, as a Data Scientist will make use of my analysis skills and knowledge to come up with the key findings that might prove to be helpful in achieving the said purpose. Majorly the task is to aggregate the data to exhibit key trends in school performance.

Data Description:
With regards to the dataset, we have been provided with the the school dataset and student data set.e. along with a merge of the two, i.e. school_data_complete. Both the datasets contain multiple columns such as Student ID, student name, student gender, student scores in a couple of subjects, the type, size and budget of each school. We will be making use of the provided data in our analysis to make meaningful conclusions.

Methodology:
Here, in this project, we have used pandas library (#import pandas as pd). We have made use of a number of functions including the nunique, sum, mean, count,sort, groupby function etc. We also filtered data based on conditions to get the desired data wherever required.We then created dataframes containing key/value sets for the calculations we did previously.We also used the binning function and pd.cut to categorize schools based on spending and school size.

Conclusion:
All in all we can conclude that after calculating all the key metrics and looking into the data we can conclude that the "Charter" type schools are better performing than the "district" type schools in terms of math scores, reading scores or overall percentage passing. Also they have lower per student budget than the "district" hence the mayor and the schools should dig deeper into it and find out that despite a higher student budget why are the district schools not yielding good results. Also math scores for district schools are significantly lower than the charter ones hence the mayor and the school management should re-assess their subject teaching strategy and try making it more effective for the students to grasp the concept in a better way. We can also study as to what strategy are the charter schools going for which has proved fruitful for individuals to get good scores in math. The number of students in district schools in generally higher than the charter which might be a contributing factor in low overall scores. This might be over burdening the teaching staff and lead to decreased attention towards each individual's learning needs from the teacher's side. The decision makers must look into the above findings/trends so they can make better,more informed decisions for the schools in future.

Key Findings/Key comaparisons:
Below are a few conclusiding statements or comparison for the project as per the data/overall analysis: The overall passing percentage is not depent on total school budget or total student budget.As there are schools which have low total budget and per student budget but have a higher overall passing percentage as compared to the ones which have higher total budget and per student budget. The "Charter" schools generally have low total budget and per student budget as compared to "district" schools but have higher overall percentage passing. The top five highest performing schools based on % overall passing are all "Charter" schools whereas all five bottom performing schools are "district" schools.However the per student budget for "district" schools is generally higher than "Charter" schools. On an average, the reading scores by grade are higher than the math score by grades. The total number of students for each school, overall,seem to be higher in "disctrict" schools than "charter" schools. As per the school score per spending, the % overall passing is the highest i.e. 90.369459% for the lowest spending range, that is, <$585 hence we can conclude that a high spending range does not guarantee a a high overall percentage passing. As per schools score per size, it can be seen that, on an average, a large school size yields lower overall percentage passing as compared to medium and small school size. Also the large school size has a significantly low percentage passing math which should be looked into. The medium sized schools have the highest overall percentage passing i.e. 90.621535%. Overall we can conclude that the "charter" schools are better performing and more efficient than "district" schools. The strategists and decision makers should dig deeper into the reasons and try and devise effective strategies to make the "district" schools more cost efficient and better perfoirming in future.
